P a g e | 24 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling 
barely an inch from Dudley’s when the silver antlers caught it; the thing was thrown up into the air and, like its fellow, it soared away and was absorbed into the darkness. The stag cantered to the end of the alleyway and dissolved into silver mist. 
Moon, stars, and streetlamps burst back into life. A warm breeze swept the alleyway. Trees rustled in neighboring gardens and the mundane rumble of cars in Magnolia Crescent filled the air again. Harry stood quite still, all his senses vibrating, taking in the abrupt return to normality. After a moment he became aware that his T-shirt was sticking to him; he was drenched in sweat. 
He could not believe what had just happened. Dementors here, in Little Whinging ... Dudley lay curled up on the ground, whimpering and shaking. Harry bent down to see whether he was in a fit state to stand up, but then heard loud, running 
footsteps behind him; instinctively raising his wand 
again, he spun on his heel to face the newcomer. Mrs. Figg, their batty old neighbor, came panting into sight. Her grizzled gray hair was escaping from its hairnet, a clanking string shopping bag was swinging from her wrist, and her feet were halfway out of her tartan carpet slippers. Harry made to stow his wand hurriedly out of sight, but — “Don’t put it away, idiot boy!” she shrieked. “What if there are more of them around? Oh, I’m going to kill Mundungus Fletcher!” P a g e | 25 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling 
A PECK OF OWLS 
“What?” said Harry blankly. 
  
“He left!” said Mrs. Figg, wringing her hands. “Left to 
see someone about a batch of cauldrons that fell off the back of a broom! I told him I’d flay him alive if he went, and now look! Dementors! It’s just lucky I put Mr. Tibbies on the case! But we haven’t got time to stand around! Hurry, now, we’ve got to get you back! Oh, the trouble this is going to cause! I will kill him!” “But —” The revelation that his batty old cat-obsessed neighbor knew what dementors were was almost as big a shock to Harry as meeting two of them down the alleyway. “You’re — you’re a witch?” “I’m a Squib, as Mundungus knows full well, so how on earth was I supposed to help you fight off dementors? He left you completely without cover when I warned him —” P a g e | 26 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling “This bloke Mundungus has been following me? Hang on — it was him! He Disapparated from the front of my house!” 
“Yes, yes, yes, but luckily I’d stationed Mr. Tibbies under a car just in case, and Mr. Tibbies came and warned me, but by the time I got to your house you’d gone — and now — oh, what’s Dumbledore going to say? You!” she shrieked at Dudley, still supine on the alley floor. “Get your fat bottom off the ground, quick!” 
“You know Dumbledore?” said Harry, staring at her. “Of course I know Dumbledore, who doesn’t know Dumbledore? But come on — I’ll be no help if they come back, I’ve never so much as Transfigured a teabag —” 
She stooped down, seized one of Dudley’s massive arms in her wizened hands, and tugged. “Get up, you useless lump, get up!” But Dudley either could not or would not move. He was still on the ground, trembling and ashen-faced, his mouth shut very tight. 
“I’ll do it.” Harry took hold of Dudley’s arm and heaved: With an enormous effort he managed to hoist 
Dudley to his feet. Dudley seemed to be on the point 
of fainting: His small eyes were rolling in their sockets and sweat was beading his face; the moment Harry let go of him he swayed dangerously. “Hurry up!” said Mrs. Figg hysterically. 
Harry pulled one of Dudley’s massive arms around his own shoulders and dragged him toward the road, P a g e | 27 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling sagging slightly under his weight. Mrs. Figg tottered along in front of them, peering anxiously around the corner. “Keep your wand out,” she told Harry, as they entered Wisteria Walk. “Never mind the Statute of Secrecy now, there’s going to be hell to pay anyway, we might as well be hanged for a dragon as an egg. Talk about the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery ... This was exactly what Dumbledore was afraid of — what’s that at the end of the street? Oh, it’s just Mr. Prentice... Don’t put your wand away, boy, don’t I keep telling you I’m no use?” 
It was not easy to hold a wand steady and carry 
Dudley along at the same time. Harry gave his cousin an impatient dig in the ribs, but Dudley seemed to have lost all desire for independent movement. He was slumped on Harry’s shoulder, his large feet dragging along the ground. 
“Why didn’t you tell me you’re a Squib?” Harry asked Mrs. Figg, panting with the effort to keep walking. “All those times I came round your house — why didn’t you say anything?” 
“Dumbledore’s orders. I was to keep an eye on you but not say anything, you were too young. I’m sorry I gave you such a miserable time, but the Dursleys would never have let you come if they’d thought you enjoyed it. It wasn’t easy, you know... But oh my word,” she said tragically, wringing her hands once more, “when Dumbledore hears about this — how could Mundungus have left, he was supposed to be on duty until midnight — where is he? How am I going to tell Dumbledore what’s happened, I can’t 
Apparate —” 
P a g e | 28 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling 
“I’ve got an owl, you can borrow her,” Harry groaned, wondering whether his spine was going to snap under Dudley’s weight. “Harry, you don’t understand! Dumbledore will need to act as quickly as possible, the Ministry have their own ways of detecting underage magic, they’ll know already, you mark my words —” 
“But I was getting rid of dementors, I had to use magic — they’re going to be more worried what dementors were doing floating around Wisteria Walk, surely?” 
“Oh my dear, I wish it were so but I’m afraid — MUNDUNGUS FLETCHER, I AM GOING TO KILL YOU!” There was a loud crack and a strong smell of mingled drink and stale tobacco filled the air as a squat, unshaven man in a tattered overcoat materialized 
right in front of them. He had short bandy legs, long 
straggly ginger hair, and bloodshot baggy eyes that 
gave him the doleful look of a basset hound; he was also clutching a silvery bundle that Harry recognized at once as an Invisibility Cloak. “ ’S’ up, Figgy?” he said, staring from Mrs. Figg to Harry and Dudley. “What ’appened to staying undercover?” 
“I’ll give you undercover!” cried Mrs. Figg. “Dementors, you useless, skiving sneak thief!” “Dementors?” repeated Mundungus, aghast. “Dementors here?” 
P a g e | 29 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling 
“Yes, here, you worthless pile of bat droppings, here!” shrieked Mrs. Figg. “Dementors attacking the boy on your watch!” “Blimey,” said Mundungus weakly, looking from Mrs. Figg to Harry and back again. “Blimey, I ...” 
“And you off buying stolen cauldrons! Didn’t I tell you not to go? Didn’t I?” “I — well, I —” Mundungus looked deeply 
uncomfortable. “It ... it was a very good business 
opportunity, see ...” Mrs. Figg raised the arm from which her string bag dangled and whacked Mundungus around the face and neck with it; judging by the clanking noise it made it was full of cat food. “Ouch — gerroff — gerroff, you mad old bat! Someone’s gotta tell Dumbledore!” “Yes — they — have!” yelled Mrs. Figg, still swinging the bag of cat food at every bit of Mundungus she could reach. “And — it — had — better — be — you — and — you — can — tell — him — why — you — weren’t — there — to — help!” “Keep your ’airnet on!” said Mundungus, his arms over his head, cowering. “I’m going, I’m going!” And with another loud crack, he vanished. “I hope Dumbledore murders him!” said Mrs. Figg furiously. “Now come on, Harry, what are you waiting for?” Harry decided not to waste his remaining breath on 
pointing out that he could barely walk under Dudley’s 
P a g e | 30 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling 
bulk. He gave the semiconscious Dudley a heave and staggered onward. “I’ll take you to the door,” said Mrs. Figg, as they turned into Privet Drive. “Just in case there are more of them around... Oh my word, what a catastrophe ... and you had to fight them off yourself ... and Dumbledore said we were to keep you from doing magic at all costs... Well, it’s no good crying over spilled potion, I suppose ... but the cat’s among the pixies now ...” 
“So,” Harry panted, “Dumbledore’s ... been having ... me followed?” “Of course he has,” said Mrs. Figg impatiently. “Did you expect him to let you wander around on your own after what happened in June? Good Lord, boy, they told me you were intelligent... Right ... get inside and stay there,” she said as they reached number four. “I expect someone will be in touch with you soon 
enough.” 
“What are you going to do?” asked Harry quickly. “I’m going straight home,” said Mrs. Figg, staring around the dark street and shuddering. “I’ll need to wait for more instructions. Just stay in the house. Good night.” 
“Hang on, don’t go yet! I want to know —” But Mrs. Figg had already set off at a trot, carpet slippers flopping, string bag clanking. “Wait!” Harry shouted after her; he had a million questions to ask anyone who was in contact with Dumbledore; but within seconds Mrs. Figg was swallowed by the darkness. Scowling, Harry P a g e | 31 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling readjusted Dudley on his shoulder and made his slow, painful way up number four’s garden path. The hall light was on. Harry stuck his wand back inside the waistband of his jeans, rang the bell, and watched Aunt Petunia’s outline grow larger and larger, oddly distorted by the rippling glass in the 
front door. 
“Diddy! About time too, I was getting quite — quite — Diddy, what’s the matter?” Harry looked sideways at Dudley and ducked out from under his arm just in time. Dudley swayed for a moment on the spot, his face pale green, then he opened his mouth at last and vomited all over the doormat. 
“DIDDY! Diddy, what’s the matter with you? Vernon? VERNON!” Harry’s uncle came galumphing out of the living room, walrus mustache blowing hither and thither as 
it always did when he was agitated. He hurried forward to help Aunt Petunia negotiate a weak-kneed Dudley over the threshold while avoiding stepping in the pool of sick. “He’s ill, Vernon!” “What is it, son? What’s happened? Did Mrs. Polkiss give you something foreign for tea?” “Why are you all covered in dirt, darling? Have you 
been lying on the ground?” 
“Hang on — you haven’t been mugged, have you, son?” P a g e | 32 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling Aunt Petunia screamed. “Phone the police, Vernon! Phone the police! Diddy, darling, speak to Mummy! What did they do to you?” In all the kerfuffle, nobody seemed to have noticed Harry, which suited him perfectly. He managed to slip inside just before Uncle Vernon slammed the door and while the Dursleys made their noisy progress down the hall toward the kitchen, Harry moved carefully and quietly toward the stairs. “Who did it, son? Give us names. We’ll get them, don’t worry.” “Shh! He’s trying to say something, Vernon! What is it, Diddy? Tell Mummy!” Harry’s foot was on the bottommost stair when Dudley found his voice. “Him. ” 
Harry froze, foot on the stair, face screwed up, braced 
for the explosion. “BOY! COME HERE!” With a feeling of mingled dread and anger, Harry removed his foot slowly from the stair and turned to follow the Dursleys. The scrupulously clean kitchen had an oddly unreal glitter after the darkness outside. Aunt Petunia was ushering Dudley into a chair; he was still very green and clammy looking. Uncle Vernon was standing in front of the draining board, glaring at Harry through tiny, narrowed eyes. P a g e | 33 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling “What have you done to my son?” he said in a menacing growl. “Nothing,” said Harry, knowing perfectly well that Uncle Vernon wouldn’t believe him. “What did he do to you, Diddy?” Aunt Petunia said in a quavering voice, now sponging sick from the front of Dudley’s leather jacket. “Was it — was it you-know- 


what, darling? Did he use — his thing?” Slowly, tremulously, Dudley nodded. “I didn’t!” Harry said sharply, as Aunt Petunia let out a wail and Uncle Vernon raised his fists. “I didn’t do anything to him, it wasn’t me, it was —” But at that precise moment a screech owl swooped in through the kitchen window. Narrowly missing the top of Uncle Vernon’s head, it soared across the kitchen, dropped the large parchment envelope it was carrying in its beak at Harry’s feet, and turned gracefully, the tips of its wings just brushing the top of the fridge, then zoomed outside again and off across the garden. “OWLS!” bellowed Uncle Vernon, the well-worn vein in his temple pulsing angrily as he slammed the kitchen window shut. “OWLS AGAIN! I WILL NOT HAVE ANY MORE OWLS IN MY HOUSE!” But Harry was already ripping open the envelope and pulling out the letter inside, his heart pounding somewhere in the region of his Adam’s apple. 


Dear Mr. Potter, 
We have received intelligence that you performed the Patronus Charm at twenty-three minutes past nine this P a g e | 34 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling evening in a Muggle-inhabited area and in the presence of a Muggle. The severity of this breach of the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery has resulted in your expulsion from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Ministry representatives will be calling at your place of residence shortly to destroy your wand. As you have already received an official warning for a previous offense under section 13 of the International Confederation of Wizards’ Statute of Secrecy, we regret to inform you that your presence is required at a disciplinary hearing at the Ministry of Magic at 9 a.m. on August 12th. Hoping you are well, Yours sincerely, 
Mafalda Hopkirk 
IMPROPER USE OF MAGIC OFFICE Ministry of Magic Harry read the letter through twice. He was only vaguely aware of Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia talking in the vicinity. Inside his head, all was icy and numb. One fact had penetrated his consciousness like a paralyzing dart. He was expelled from Hogwarts. It was all over. He was never going back. He looked up at the Dursleys. Uncle Vernon was purple-faced, shouting, his fists still raised; Aunt Petunia had her arms around Dudley, who was retching again. 
