P a g e | 98 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling “His life’s ambition is to have his head cut off and stuck up on a plaque just like his mother,” said Ron irritably. “Is that normal, Hermione?” “Well — well, if he is a bit strange, it’s not his fault —” Ron rolled his eyes at Harry. “Hermione still hasn’t given up on spew —” “It’s not ‘spew’!” said Hermione heatedly. “It’s the Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare, and it’s not just me, Dumbledore says we should be kind to Kreacher too —” “Yeah, yeah,” said Ron. “C’mon, I’m starving.” He led the way out of the door and onto the landing, but before they could descend the stairs — “Hold it!” Ron breathed, flinging out an arm to stop Harry and Hermione walking any farther. “They’re still in the hall, we might be able to hear something —” The three of them looked cautiously over the banisters. The gloomy hallway below was packed with 

witches and wizards, including all of Harry’s guard. 
They were whispering excitedly together. In the very center of the group Harry saw the dark, greasy-haired head and prominent nose of his least favorite teacher at Hogwarts, Professor Snape. Harry leaned farther over the banisters. He was very interested in what Snape was doing for the Order of the Phoenix... 
A thin piece of flesh-colored string descended in front of Harry’s eyes. Looking up he saw Fred and George on the landing above, cautiously lowering the Extendable Ear toward the dark knot of people below. A moment later, however, they began to move toward the front door and out of sight. 
P a g e | 99 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling 
“Dammit,” Harry heard Fred whisper, as he hoisted the Extendable Ear back up again. They heard the front door open and then close. “Snape never eats here,” Ron told Harry quietly. “Thank God. C’mon.” 
“And don’t forget to keep your voice down in the hall, 

Harry,” Hermione whispered. 
As they passed the row of house-elf heads on the wall they saw Lupin, Mrs. Weasley, and Tonks at the front door, magically sealing its many locks and bolts behind those who had just left. 
“We’re eating down in the kitchen,” Mrs. Weasley whispered, meeting them at the bottom of the stairs. “Harry, dear, if you’ll just tiptoe across the hall, it’s through this door here —” 
CRASH. “Tonks!” cried Mrs. Weasley exasperatedly, turning to look behind her. “I’m sorry!” wailed Tonks, who was lying flat on the floor. “It’s that stupid umbrella stand, that’s the second time I’ve tripped over —” But the rest of her words were drowned by a horrible, earsplitting, bloodcurdling screech. The moth-eaten velvet curtains Harry had passed earlier had flown apart, but there was no door behind them. For a split second, Harry thought he was 

looking through a window, a window behind which an 
old woman in a black cap was screaming and 
screaming as though she was being tortured — then 
P a g e | 100 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling 
he realized it was simply a life-size portrait, but the most realistic, and the most unpleasant, he had ever 
seen in his life. The old woman was drooling, her eyes were rolling, the yellowing skin of her face stretched taut as she screamed, and all along the hall behind them, the other portraits awoke and began to yell too, so that Harry actually screwed up his eyes at the noise and clapped his hands over his ears. Lupin and Mrs. Weasley darted forward and tried to tug the curtains shut over the old woman, but they would not close and she screeched louder than ever, brandishing clawed hands as though trying to tear at their faces. “Filth! Scum! By-products of dirt and vileness! Half- breeds, mutants, freaks, begone from this place! How dare you befoul the house of my fathers —” 

Tonks apologized over and over again, at the same 
time dragging the huge, heavy troll’s leg back off the floor. Mrs. Weasley abandoned the attempt to close the curtains and hurried up and down the hall, Stunning all the other portraits with her wand. Then a man with long black hair came charging out of a door facing Harry. 
“Shut up, you horrible old hag, shut UP!” he roared, seizing the curtain Mrs. Weasley had abandoned. The old woman’s face blanched. “Yoooou!” she howled, her eyes popping at the sight of the man. “Blood traitor, abomination, shame of my flesh!” 
P a g e | 101 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling 
“I said — shut — UP!” roared the man, and with a stupendous effort he and Lupin managed to force the curtains closed again. The old woman’s screeches died and an echoing silence fell. 
Panting slightly and sweeping his long dark hair out 

of his eyes, Harry’s godfather, Sirius, turned to face 
him. “Hello, Harry,” he said grimly, “I see you’ve met my mother.” P a g e | 102 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling 
THE ORDER OF THE PHOENIX 
“Your — ?” “My dear old mum, yeah,” said Sirius. “We’ve been trying to get her down for a month but we think she put a Permanent Sticking Charm on the back of the canvas. Let’s get downstairs, quick, before they all wake up again.” “But what’s a portrait of your mother doing here?” Harry asked, bewildered, as they went through the 

door from the hall and led the way down a flight of 
narrow stone steps, the others just behind them. “Hasn’t anyone told you? This was my parents’ house,” said Sirius. “But I’m the last Black left, so it’s mine now. I offered it to Dumbledore for headquarters — about the only useful thing I’ve been able to do.” Harry, who had expected a better welcome, noted how hard and bitter Sirius’s voice sounded. He followed his godfather to the bottom of the stairs and through 
a door leading into the basement kitchen. 
P a g e | 103 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling 
It was scarcely less gloomy than the hall above, a cavernous room with rough stone walls. Most of the light was coming from a large fire at the far end of the room. A haze of pipe smoke hung in the air like battle fumes, through which loomed the menacing shapes of heavy iron pots and pans hanging from the dark ceiling. Many chairs had been crammed into the room for the meeting and a long wooden table stood in the middle of the room, littered with rolls of parchment, 

goblets, empty wine bottles, and a heap of what 
appeared to be rags. Mr. Weasley and his eldest son, Bill, were talking quietly with their heads together at the end of the table. Mrs. Weasley cleared her throat. Her husband, a thin, balding, red-haired man, who wore horn-rimmed glasses, looked around and jumped to his feet. “Harry!” Mr. Weasley said, hurrying forward to greet him and shaking his hand vigorously. “Good to see you!” 
Over his shoulder Harry saw Bill, who still wore his long hair in a ponytail, hastily rolling up the lengths of parchment left on the table. “Journey all right, Harry?” Bill called, trying to gather up twelve scrolls at once. “Mad-Eye didn’t make you come via Greenland, then?” 
“He tried,” said Tonks, striding over to help Bill and immediately sending a candle toppling onto the last piece of parchment. “Oh no — sorry —” “Here, dear,” said Mrs. Weasley, sounding 

exasperated, and she repaired the parchment with a 
wave of her wand: In the flash of light caused by Mrs. Weasley’s charm, Harry caught a glimpse of what looked like the plan of a building. P a g e | 104 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling Mrs. Weasley had seen him looking. She snatched the 
plan off the table and stuffed it into Bill’s heavily laden arms. “This sort of thing ought to be cleared away promptly at the end of meetings,” she snapped before sweeping off toward an ancient dresser from which she started unloading dinner plates. 
Bill took out his wand, muttered “Evanesco!” and the scrolls vanished. “Sit down, Harry,” said Sirius. “You’ve met Mundungus, haven’t you?” 
The thing Harry had taken to be a pile of rags gave a prolonged, grunting snore and then jerked awake. “Some’n say m’ name?” Mundungus mumbled sleepily. “I ’gree with Sirius...” 

He raised a very grubby hand in the air as though 
voting, his droopy, bloodshot eyes unfocused. Ginny giggled. “The meeting’s over, Dung,” said Sirius, as they all sat down around him at the table. “Harry’s arrived.” “Eh?” said Mundungus, peering balefully at Harry through his matted ginger hair. “Blimey, so ’e ’as. Yeah ... you all right, ’arry?” 
“Yeah,” said Harry. Mundungus fumbled nervously in his pockets, still staring at Harry, and pulled out a grimy black pipe. He stuck it in his mouth, ignited the end of it with his wand, and took a deep pull on it. Great billowing clouds of greenish smoke obscured him in seconds. P a g e | 105 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling “Owe you a ’pology,” grunted a voice from the middle of the smelly cloud. “For the last time, Mundungus,” called Mrs. Weasley, “will you please not smoke that thing in the kitchen, especially not when we’re about to eat!” 

“Ah,” said Mundungus. “Right. Sorry, Molly.” 
The cloud of smoke vanished as Mundungus stowed his pipe back in his pocket, but an acrid smell of burning socks lingered. “And if you want dinner before midnight I’ll need a hand,” Mrs. Weasley said to the room at large. “No, you can stay where you are, Harry dear, you’ve had a long journey —” 
“What can I do, Molly?” said Tonks enthusiastically, bounding forward. Mrs. Weasley hesitated, looking apprehensive. “Er — no, it’s all right, Tonks, you have a rest too, you’ve done enough today —” 
“No, no, I want to help!” said Tonks brightly, knocking over a chair as she hurried toward the dresser from which Ginny was collecting cutlery. Soon a series of heavy knives were chopping meat 
and vegetables of their own accord, supervised by Mr. Weasley, while Mrs. Weasley stirred a cauldron dangling over the fire and the others took out plates, 

more goblets, and food from the pantry. Harry was 
left at the table with Sirius and Mundungus, who was still blinking mournfully at him. “Seen old Figgy since?” he asked. P a g e | 106 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling “No,” said Harry, “I haven’t seen anyone.” 
“See, I wouldn’t ’ave left,” said Mundungus, leaning forward, a pleading note in his voice, “but I ’ad a business opportunity —” Harry felt something brush against his knees and started, but it was only Crookshanks, Hermione’s bandy-legged ginger cat, who wound himself once around Harry’s legs, purring, then jumped onto Sirius’s lap and curled up. Sirius scratched him absentmindedly behind the ears as he turned, still grim-faced, to Harry. 
“Had a good summer so far?” “No, it’s been lousy,” said Harry. For the first time, something like a grin flitted across Sirius’s face. 

“Don’t know what you’re complaining about, myself.” 
“What?” said Harry incredulously. 
“Personally, I’d have welcomed a dementor attack. A 
deadly struggle for my soul would have broken the 
monotony nicely. You think you’ve had it bad, at least 
you’ve been able to get out and about, stretch your 
legs, get into a few fights... I’ve been stuck inside for a 
month.” 
“How come?” asked Harry, frowning. 
“Because the Ministry of Magic’s still after me, and 
Voldemort will know all about me being an Animagus 
by now, Wormtail will have told him, so my big 
disguise is useless. There’s not much I can do for the 
Order of the Phoenix ... or so Dumbledore feels.” 
P a g e | 107 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling 
There was something about the slightly flattened tone of voice in which Sirius uttered Dumbledore’s name 
that told Harry that Sirius was not very happy with the headmaster either. Harry felt a sudden upsurge of affection for his godfather. “At least you’ve known what’s been going on,” he said 

bracingly. 
“Oh yeah,” said Sirius sarcastically. “Listening to Snape’s reports, having to take all his snide hints that he’s out there risking his life while I’m sat on my backside here having a nice comfortable time ... asking me how the cleaning’s going —” 
“What cleaning?” asked Harry. “Trying to make this place fit for human habitation,” said Sirius, waving a hand around the dismal kitchen. “No one’s lived here for ten years, not since my dear mother died, unless you count her old house-elf, and he’s gone round the twist, hasn’t cleaned anything in ages —” “Sirius?” said Mundungus, who did not appear to have paid any attention to this conversation, but had been minutely examining an empty goblet. “This solid silver, mate?” “Yes,” said Sirius, surveying it with distaste. “Finest fifteenth-century goblin-wrought silver, embossed with the Black family crest.” 

“That’d come off, though,” muttered Mundungus, 
polishing it with his cuff. “Fred — George — NO, JUST CARRY THEM!” Mrs. Weasley shrieked. P a g e | 108 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling Harry, Sirius, and Mundungus looked around and, a split second later, dived away from the table. Fred and George had bewitched a large cauldron of stew, an iron flagon of butterbeer, and a heavy wooden breadboard, complete with knife, to hurtle through the air toward them. The stew skidded the length of the table and came to a halt just before the end, leaving a long black burn on the wooden surface, the flagon of butterbeer fell with a crash, spilling its contents everywhere, and the bread knife slipped off the board and landed, point down and quivering ominously, exactly where Sirius’s right hand had been seconds before. “FOR HEAVEN’S SAKE!” screamed Mrs. Weasley. “THERE WAS NO NEED — I’VE HAD ENOUGH OF 


THIS — JUST BECAUSE YOU’RE ALLOWED TO USE 
MAGIC NOW YOU DON’T HAVE TO WHIP YOUR WANDS OUT FOR EVERY TINY LITTLE THING!” “We were just trying to save a bit of time!” said Fred, hurrying forward and wrenching the bread knife out 
of the table. “Sorry Sirius, mate — didn’t mean to —” Harry and Sirius were both laughing. Mundungus, who had toppled backward off his chair, was swearing as he got to his feet. Crookshanks had given an angry hiss and shot off under the dresser, from whence his large yellow eyes glowed in the darkness. 
“Boys,” Mr. Weasley said, lifting the stew back into the middle of the table, “your mother’s right, you’re supposed to show a sense of responsibility now you’ve come of age —” 
“— none of your brothers caused this sort of trouble!” Mrs. Weasley raged at the twins, slamming a fresh flagon of butterbeer onto the table and spilling almost as much again. “Bill didn’t feel the need to Apparate 
 
